---
layout: default
title: "The Pyramids: Outrunning Time"
categories: postcards
---

When I first stepped out of the air conditioned car and into the burning-oven temperature, my head began to spin. It was 3:00 am in the morning Princeton time and I had just gotten to Cairo where it was noon. I was glad that I was finally standing in front of the structures that I had only seen on TV or in books, but the pyramids were not the way I thought they were going to be. First, I need to clarify that I really wasn’t imagining anything similar to the Empire State building. Despite that, I was expecting something a little taller. The pictures that I had seen so many times somehow made the pyramids seem like towers that stretched right into the clouds. When I was looking at the pyramids through my own eyes, however, I was beginning to feel that it was just the angles that the pictures were taken from that made them seem so massive. 
The heat began to wrap around me. My skin almost had the feeling that I had rolled in the sand for too long. The last time I felt like that was many years ago when I had spent too much time on the beach, and the grains of sand made impressions on my skin. It almost felt like a waste that people were not trying to boil eggs here. If a raw egg was placed on the ground, it would surely have boiled within a minute. I began walking towards the pyramid and I felt sand underneath my shoes. I almost forgot that we were in the middle of a desert. The radiation of the sun gave everything a white hue. The sand was such a light shade of yellow that it almost looked white.
When I began walking closer to the pyramid, the feelings of excitement were beginning to return to me. I began to wonder how the ancient Egyptians managed to survive such a temperature and were able to build one of the oldest civilizations in the world. Also, the size of the stones began to come into view. The methods that the workers used to move such titanic blocks of stones up the hill underneath the scorching sun was worth pondering. I felt exhausted when I walked up the steep hill carrying nothing except for myself. We began to walk towards the pyramids. It was a pleasant surprise when we found out that visitors were allowed to go into the pyramids.
When we got in front of the pyramid, we decided to stop and take a picture. We were able to capture a photo at the angle where most pictures of the Great Pyramids were taken. Then, we  hiked up the remaining distance to the entrance. We had to climb up a group of rocks to reach the opening. I could not believe that I was stepping on rocks that were placed there by the orders of the Pharaohs themselves. These rocks were placed there more than four thousand years ago. When we were in the interior of the pyramid. It was difficult to breathe. If it felt like an oven outside, it felt like a geyser inside. The humidity clung to me. It was as if I was wearing a giant fur coat.
When we began to climb, I began to appreciate how the explorers before us were able to find the entrance. With all of those tunnels, the interior of the pyramid can compare in complexity to an ant hive. We followed a tunnel that was clearly marked out for us. I could not help but remember the movies about the explorers who fell into traps when exploring ancient burial sites. The good thing was that there was a crowd of people with us. Well, that can be unfortunate too because the huge number of people increased the already high humidity inside of the pyramid. Even though the crowd was pushing forward, I was still able to glance at the walls around me while climbing up slanted tunnels with wooden planks underneath me and handrails on either side of me. There were also holes on the walls that were probably made by the workers.
When we were in the burial chamber, it was impossible to breathe so we left quickly. Despite that, I was able to see the open stone sarcophagus but there was, fortunately, nothing inside. The bodies of the pharaohs had been moved to a museum in Cairo. On our way out, we shoved through the crowd like we did on the way up and were almost grateful for the air in the oven outside. Despite that, I still remember the journey up the pyramid vividly. The slanted tunnels, the complexity, and the wooden planks are still in my mind today. We walked down the hill towards the car. The idea of being able to step out of the oven was tempting. The air conditioned car was certainly the place to go after being baked.
On the ride away from the pyramids, I began to feel small. I mean that is the feeling that almost anyone would have after leaving those structures. I am but a speck in the never ending river of time and shall make my exit in a mere one hundred years. The pyramids, however, have been there for thousands of years. Even the great pharaohs who ruled over the ancient civilization of Egypt are no longer alive today. No one can escape entirely from the grasp of time. No matter where one goes, one is always vulnerable to time. It is the most powerful enemy of any ruler. Even if a person becomes famous one day, that fame will not last forever. The pyramids sit there watching everything; they are probably the winner in the game of outrunning time after defeating their creators.
