---
layout: default
title: "Tibet"
categories: postcards

When I first stepped off the plane, the sky immediately attracted my attention. After spending more than a month in Beijing and Chengdu, the cloudless blue sky of Tibet was stunning. That shade of blue has a specific name in Chinese we call “high altitude blue” because it is usually seen only in high altitude regions. Because my mom had returned to America all ready for work, my dad and I had come to Tibet without her. We rented a car when we got off the plane and began driving to a lake at the top of a mountain range 5,000 meters above sea level. 

During the first part of the drive, I felt fine. Eventually, however, I began feeling dizzy. I’ve read about altitude sickness so much that I was not surprised. I was just surprised that I had not started having them earlier. When my dad drove into the parking lot of a viewing platform, I was almost asleep. Fortunately, we found a store for oxygen tanks there. With oxygen, I felt refreshed. 

We walked onto the platform, and I was surprised by what I saw. The view completely changed my feelings at the moment. I had often heard that Tibet has some of the most beautiful places in the world. Despite that, I could never have pictured the lake that was in front of my eyes. The site was almost impossible to describe in words. The clear blue water underneath the crystal blue sky with green trees dotted onto dark mountains in the background seemed too picturesque to be real. The pure white clouds made dark imprints on the lake below. The lake itself is like a painting of blends between different shades of blue. I inhaled deeply the fresh scent of the atmosphere.

There was no sign of humanity near the lake, which contrasted significantly with the platform teeming with people. The lake was fenced off by barbed wires, and I couldcan understand why. If groups and groups of tourists crowd around the lake, there would be signs of trash around and even floating on top of the lake, and the reserve for wild animals would be disturbed. The animal wildlife in Tibet mainly consists of animal species that can survive at high altitude. A good example of that is the ox. These animals have thick fur and can survive in the thin atmosphere of Tibet. They are a great help to the local people who can use them to carry loads. Compared to the busy cities of Beijing and Chengdu, Tibet is a place where people can sit down and relax for the day. It is a place where people can slow down a bit and spend time admiring nature’s beauty instead of focusing on their busy lives. I for one felt extremely calm when I looked at the lake below. For a few seconds, observing the scene took all of my attention. The chaotic noises of chatting tourists and car engines down in the parking lot disappeared from the scene. Everything else, every earthly concern, was driven into oblivion.

The wind gently brushed my cheeks. It was cold up in Tibet. It finally brought me out of my view of the lake. Despite that, I remained relieved. Time seemed to slow down around the lake and the magic of that took a long time to disappear. Being away from the rest of the world felt strange in a positive way. I thought about the lake and the clouds above it. It is correct to say that these landmarks had been there for thousands of years before I came and the protections around the lake guarantee that it will be there to stay. The sun shone brightly in the sky, casting a reflection of the mountains into the water. Despite that, the dark colored shadows look different from the mirrored images I had seen before. I opened my mouth to talk and the air tasted extremely cold.

“Dad, get a picture of this,” I said. The moment when the light from the sun cast against the lake seemed so perfect that not capturing it and trying to preserve it seemed a waste. It is like pressing a flower to preserve its beauty forever. The words felt strange on the tip of my tongue because they were the first words that I had said in a while. The scene was so absorbing that the need for communication disappeared as well.

 My dad was so absorbed by the scene that it took a few seconds for him to realize that I was talking to him. “Okay, got it,” he said. The picture that we captured and saved into the picture album was nothing compared to the real scene. Similar to the pressed flower, the fragrance and the actual feeling of attraction was gone. The picture was just a picture that did not process anything other than a flat image.

As I walked along the edge of the platform with my hand on the fence that surrounds it, I could not take my eyes off the lake. I scanned the region around the lake for wild animals. A few oxen wandering around the lake caught my attention. Their snow-white fur stood out against the jade-green grass. They roamed about without any particular sign of direction. It seemed that even the wild animals were impacted by the slow pace of life in Tibet. I withdrew my hand from the cold metal and looked around. Many people come up here with a cup of coffee and a foldable chair. They stay for hours and sometimes even the whole day. I would have really enjoyed staying longer in this distant corner of the globe. Unfortunately, altitude sickness did not allow me to. My lungs began feeling tired again and I placed the bottle of oxygen in front of my nose and breathed hard from it. This time, however, the fresh oxygen did not help me stay refreshed.

“Dad, I am feeling sick,” I said. My head began to spin. The imagery around seemed to melt into one giant collage of the people, the mountains, the oxen, and the water. Despite that, I really did not want to leave because the scenes from nature seemed to be calling me from amid the mixture of images. My voice was filled with the pity of not being able to stay longer and remain in the presence of the majestic lake.

“I am feeling sick as well. We should be on our way now,” my dad said. It was clear that he also did not want to leave. This exchange of information was a long time after the first one. The feeling of silence around the lake was something that we did not want to disturb. It almost felt wrong to be talking in the region around the nature reserve. The slow pace itself almost feels wrong to be broken.

I took one last look at the dark blue lake framed by dark green mountains. From afar, it was like looking at a dark jade plate with a blue diamond on it. When I walked down the steps of the platform, my eyes turned from the lake and the natural reserve around it to the crowded parking lot with tourists carrying giant cameras and cars attempting to squeeze between other cars. My mind, however, was unaffected by this chaotic scene. It was still fixed on what I saw before. The lake, the mountains, and the clouds were carved into my mind. I didn’t notice the contrast between the placid lake and the region around it and the parking lot filled with clamorous noises. I was still picturing myself near the lake when I was already in the car. My dad started the engine and the car began moving out of the parking lot and onto the road below. 

Then, I began returning to reality. Events from my life came back to me and I felt like myself again. Even though my daily worries began returning to me, I was no longer as worried about them as before. The view that I saw reshaped my view of life. Tranquility is contagious. After the time that I spent around the lake, the worries that I had seemed extremely small compared to the lake. My worries and even my life are only a small speck in the river of time. 






