---
layout: default
title: "Greek: The Great Things"
categories: postcards
---
The Acropolis looked old and a ruin from a distance. Despite that, there is a certain beauty in destruction that gives one the feeling of the power of time. Some days before we actually climbed the Acropolis hill, we went on the Philopappos Hill. It was some distance away but when we were on the top, we could see the Acropolis clearly. It began to rain and suddenly, as unexpected as a bolt of lightning, a rainbow appeared. The end of it touched the Acropolis and made me think about the legend that there is a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow. The pot of gold is as worthless as a pot of pebbles compared to the Acropolis, I mused. I thought about that again when I began to approach the Acropolis. The climb was long but it was certainly worth the effort. When we reached the top, the walls of the gate to the Acropolis shined like bright lights attached to each other. When I placed my foot on the path made from large rectangular rocks, I was shocked. The Acropolis was huge. Rows of columns supported a grand roof with signs of pictures carved onto its sides. Yet, it was a skeleton. The walls and windows were gone due to the tireless time and the pictures were removed. Some of them were taken by the British and others were in another museum in Athens. I wondered for a second what the proud Greeks from the Golden Hellenic Era would have felt seeing it. They probably would not have even wanted to admit it was still the Acropolis. Golden ages of civilizations come and go because time is always there. Nothing can survive the power of time. It is like a black hole. Whatever goes past the horizon can never avoid the fate of being swallowed and destroyed. I approached the Acropolis from the side and wondered what the Doric Columns would have looked like when they were first placed there. Eventually, I decided that it was impossible to tell precisely what the image was because time had ensured that all evidence was destroyed as thoroughly as possible. I thought for a moment what the Aliens that would find Earth billions of years later would think when they see our ruins. Would they know what our buildings were for? 


When we went to the National Archeology Museum, it was sunny. It seemed that even the sky was happy about the fact that I was finally able to go after many days of anticipation. Our sojourn in Athens unfortunately coincided with the Greek national holidays and we finally caught a day when the Museum was open. When I walked towards it, I was not shocked. To be clear, it was a lovely building but the problem was, it was not old. After the time I spent in Greece, buildings that are younger than a thousand years seemed unimpressive. When I finally stepped inside, however, everything changed. It was the moment when my expectations reached a climax but apparently it was still too low. It was as if I stepped into Ancient Greece. I could almost smell the wagons, the shops, the people, and the cuisine. There were rows of statues all lined up together and as I got closer I could see the care and patience their creators poured into them millennia ago. A piece of work that I still remember now, is the dove cup. It was in a room teemed with people and filled with other golden treasures from the time of Greek mythology. As the legend goes, it was the cup of one of the kings who fought on the Greek side of the Trojan war. The Trojan war might not be real but the cup certainly was and still is. As I approached it, it looked regular at first. The stereotypical golden cup one might think of. When I looked closer, however, I saw two tiny doves perched onto the handles of the cup. It was the detail of the doves that really caught me unprepared. I could not believe that it was made a few thousand years ago. The doves looked so similar to actual doves that I would not be surprised if they suddenly started flying in the glass box. I admit, they are nothing like the 3-D printed doves that one can make in one’s home. There is, however, a clarification needed. The cup was made when there was no 3-D printer or any advanced tools that we have today. It was made by the most advanced tools that the Greeks had back then and showed their advancement as a civilization in their golden age. Besides that, it required artists delicately molding it and no matter how advanced they may be, it was impossible for them to have anything like we do today. The doves showed time and patience and everything that the other statues showed. The thing that made them the most different was how small they were. The patience to carve such small artifacts must have been even greater. When I left the museum that day, I kept thinking about that cup and the people who created it. I guess it is impossible to know for a fact who they were because so much time has passed.

The day we went to the ancient site of Akrotiri was sunny and bright. I wanted to go. Well, I really wanted to go. For a while now, I have been addicted to ancient stories and history. Anything that is old attracts my attention. By old, I mean antique. The buildings that boast about having several hundred years of history do not entice me. I am only drawn to things that have experienced at least one millennia. The stories that I read about are also mostly from that time period. By story, I mean history. History that is so interesting that it deserves the title story. I know quite a lot about ancient Chinese history after several years of my dad reading historical records to me. Despite that, the Akrotiri site in Santorini was also something that I desired to see because it was, well, old. When I arrived at the site, there was, well, not a lot. There were mounds of bricks and ancient pottery with decorations that were fading. From the locations of the mounds, I could deduce that buildings once stood there. Buildings that formed some type of rural village. There were traces of stairs but I could not tell for sure how tall they were. The roofs were mostly gone, leaving the rooms exposed. I looked closer and realized that the buildings had several stories. This certainly does not seem to be that big of a deal, but back then, it was a miracle. These buildings were made seven thousand years ago. America is around two to three hundred years old. When some civilizations still lived in caves, the people in Akrotiri were already building two-storied buildings. Also, seven thousand years later, they are still standing. Natural disasters and earthquakes may have taken something away from this site, but it is still there. We can still see it. I heard, before coming to the site, about how the legend of Atlantis was based on Akrotiri. This added another layer to the mystery of Akrotiri and its ancient builders. Leaning over the railings, I was able to observe traces of doorways. There was, however, a problem. The doorways were too short. There was no way that a tall person could get in without a significant amount of trouble. Well, there is no way to know for sure the reasoning of the architects but that does not mean that we cannot form a hypothesis. I believe that it has something to do with humility and the ancient belief that people should be shorter than gods. In ancient Greek mythology, the gods were portrayed as an envious and wrathful group, who do not enjoy humans flaunting their achievements. It relates to how I once heard about doorways in front of churches being shorter than necessary. When I left the site, I was still thinking about the ancient people and ways where they could potentially resemble us.
