---
layout: default
title: "A sojourn to the Past"
categories: postcards
---

Experiencing Caves 

	In the town of London, the environment is extremely different from Princeton. First of all, it is a cosmopolitan city with a considerable number of people. I grew up being used to cities, which is one of the reasons why London enticed me. The second most important reason is that London has a rich history. Princeton, similar to the rest of the U.S, has a history of barely over 400 years. London, on the other hand, has existed for thousands of years. Many landmarks caught my attention during my sojourn there but the most intriguing one is Westminster Abbey. London doubtlessly lives up to the title of a nation famous for its churches. The specific abbey I visited underscores the fact. I saw elaborate stained glass windows with a variety of colors and when the sun lights the window up, the contours seem to have come to life. The lasting history of London was also expressed due to the number of kings and queens that the abbey contained. It contained kings all the way to Edward the Repenter and many medieval kings as well. Because of my interest in the medieval age, these tombs enticed me and I spent long minutes looking at them in detail. The abbey also contains famous scientists such as Darwin and Hawkings. After a circular path through the tombs, I returned to the place where I began my visit, which is near the place where the coronation takes place. Since the time of the church’s construction, almost all monarchs have been crowned there. The medieval coronations are the ones that made me interested in visiting the coronation chair. Despite that, it is also interesting to know that the most recent coronation from a few years ago also took place there. The tie between past and present made the place even more interesting. After I completed my visit, it was time to leave. Even though my visit was short, I know that I will never forget what I saw in Westminster Abbey.
