---
layout: default
title: "A sojourn to the Past"
categories: postcards
---

Experiencing Caves 

I was born and raised in Beijing, China, and my family moved to Princeton, New Jersey when I started fifth grade. We travel to fascinating places whenever we can, and during spring break of my freshman year, my family traveled to the ancient land of Turkey where we saw countless ruins, landscapes, people, and animals. 
Our first stop was Cappadocia, known for its rocky landscape. The day that we arrived was extremely tiring. We flew from JFK to Istanbul and then immediately flew to a small airport in Cappadocia. By small, I mean that it was the size of a tiny grocery store. We could see from one end of it to the next. After finally finding our rented car, we were exhausted. I looked forward to seeing our hotel and resting. 
“What will the hotel be like?” I asked.
“It will be a cave,” my dad responded. When one hears the word “cave,” one usually pictures somewhere cold, dark, and gloomy. Our hotel was nothing like that. There were caves dug like tunnels connecting our entrance to the rest of the suite. I laid down my baggage and explored the hotel. The walls were almost entirely from the original cave but carpets were laid on top of the rock to keep the ground warm. Lights shone from the ceiling, and I discovered one mysterious small cave after another while walking around the suite. There was a medium sized niche that was carved from one of the bedrooms with a carpet and cushions laid on top. I jumped in immediately. I could fit myself inside after folding my legs. I felt like an Arab princess, and the carpet was actually extremely comfortable to lay on. 
The first day of our stay in Cappadocia was mostly filled with rest and dinner. The next few days however, were different. There was simply so much to do. We visited an open air museum and saw ancient cave paintings that Christians who lived in Turkey painted a long time ago. The most memorable one was the Dark Church, which was located in a cave on top of a hill, and climbing there took some effort. Once inside, we walked through contorted hallways and there were passages that were so low that my dad and I had to crouch. We almost envied my mom, who is five-foot-two. Inside the Dark Church, there were thousand-year-old paintings that seemed more recent with images of Jesus and his disciples. We are not Christians and could not read the Greek inscriptions so we did not understand some of the stories. Despite that, it was a wonderful experience to see something so old appear so modern. 
Another memorable experience in Cappadocia was at the Underground city, which was first constructed from the 15th to 18th centuries BCE and was occupied until the 20th century. Despite that, it was mostly used as a shelter during wartime. When we first arrived, we realized that we were in something that resembled an enlarged ant colony. The tunnels were a maze. If there were no arrows showing us where to go, we would have gotten lost so easily. Climbing down the steps was not easy. My mom again had the advantage. Sometimes when I saw my dad I would feel more balanced. He looked like a 肉夹馍 (rou jia mo); he was crushed between the walls like the meat between two slices of bread. It was impossible to imagine how people could have hidden underneath the ground during wartime. Sometimes, I wonder if some people just gave up and took their chances with the war. There was absolutely no sunlight. It was exactly the type of association people would make with an underground city. Some of the rooms were large where we could breathe, relax, and rest while others were small, and we could not all fit together and had to move on extremely quickly. Many places throughout the maze had traps that the ancients made for invaders with rocks that could be rolled out from a niche in the wall. 
The living spaces were so small that one could not enter without bending down. This time, even my mom had difficulties. There was an elevated platform for a bed but I do not believe that any type of blanket would have made life down there endurable. When we reached the very bottom there was a sign that said “cemetery.” That was the final straw. The experience was fun and different but it was a little too scary for me, a little too tight for my dad, and a little too monotonous for my mom. 
We finally got out of there. I led the way and almost started to run. I imagined zombies crawling up the jet black space behind us. We always avoided the cemetery when we traveled around Princeton because my parents knew it scared me. This time, we couldn’t avoid it. Thankfully the burial chambers were not right in front of the entrance. In the daylight, I panted, rested, and breathed. 


Remnants of an Ancient Civilization

After visiting Cappadocia, we headed for the ancient Hattusa ruins.  
“It might snow today on our way there,” my dad said before leaving the hotel. He had mentioned it a while before when we were preparing to leave for Turkey. 
“Well, I guess we are lucky to leave Cappadocia before the storm arrives,” my mom said. Neither of them seemed bothered. I was not concerned in any way either. What was there to fear? There might be a few drifting flakes but that is all that would happen. We climbed into the car and started to drive. Little picturesque Turkish villages and sheep dotted the vast plains that we passed. Rolling hills hovered on the horizon. Snow began to fall. Each flake danced in the air, swirling and floating as it came into view. 
“The snow surely looks pretty on those roofs,” I said. We began to see more accumulated snow as we drove through one town after another. Eventually, we realized that something was seriously wrong. The snow that landed in soft piles by the side of the road was picked up by the wind. It flew like an eagle or a hawk, straight and fast. The road in front of us was beginning to look blurry. We could still see right in front of us but that was all.
“The visibility range feels like ten meters,” my mom exclaimed.
“It is not that bad. It would be impossible to drive at ten meters,” my dad said. They were getting worried but I began to enjoy myself. I picked up a phone and began to make a recording. This storm will be enough to impress my friend Elena, I thought. As we continued, the visibility got worse. My dad used an old driving trick and stuck with the car in front of us. When we climbed a bridge, it got worse.
“Now it is ten meters,” my dad observed. The snow was like a blanket. It covered our car and the car in front of us. The flakes were white but these storms are usually called “black storms” because they completely block the view. The car in front of us stopped. Then it moved again. We could see its contour through the curtain of snow. Then it turned around.
“Oh gosh, is the road ahead closed off?” my mom asked. When the car approached us my dad lowered the car window. 
“Hello, is the road ahead still good?” my dad asked. The old man who drove the car tried to answer our question but the rapid Turkish that he spoke was impossible for us to understand. 
“Ankara?” he finally asked.
“Yes, yes!” my dad said. He pointed ahead but then left. I was starting to feel afraid. We felt alone in the storm. I started to understand what stranded sailors on lonely islands feel like. We pushed forward. Eventually, the visibility began to get better. We could see the mountains around us and some of the animals. We breathed sighs of relief. 
After a while, we arrived at the Hattusa remains, an expanse of rocks that were part of a once thriving civilization from 8000 years ago. Climbing out of the car, we started exploring the ruins. The stones gave me a weird feeling. They were ancient but a sense of life still remained in them. We were probably stepping on someone’s house. I pictured what might happen 8000 years from now when someone might wander into the foundations of my house and start taking pictures of the places where the walls were. I would not like that, I thought.
“The structure here is still preserved,” my dad said. I saw a basin with a sign next to it saying “lion’s head basin.” The construction was wonderful. Even though I could no longer tell that it was a lion, the mouth and head structures were visible. I imagined walking toward it as an inhabitant of this once flourishing civilization. The lion must have looked alive back then, I thought to myself. There was actually nothing to see besides that. There were only rocks, wild plants, and statues that were unrecognizable. Other basins with no decorations left behind were scattered around what was probably the road from the lack of massive rocks that served as walls. One could come here without any knowledge of the historical significance and feel bored. Despite that, knowing the historical significance changes everything. Walking in the ancient street around the rocks that stood as tall as me, I imagined the way it had been before, but it was hard to do so. Extremely hard actually. 
“Well, I guess I can see why tourists would remain here for a while,” I said.
“Yes, we would stay too if it wasn't so cold,” my dad said. Even though there was no longer a storm, flakes still landed on our faces and the snow on the ground fought to enter our shoes. Leaving the ruins, I looked at them one last time. There was no one around besides us. The whole world would one day be like this, I realized. Dead, silent, and gray. 

Treasures from the Past

After we left Hattusa, the coast was clear. The storm was over and the stray flakes that continued to fall were harmless and hard to notice. The Turkish towns that we passed showed signs of the storm but that was all. The plains after a storm were lovely. Green grass stalks were dressed in white snow with a gray sky blanketing them. After an hour, we were at Ankara, at last. When we first entered the city, the streets were teeming with people trying to attract tourists with souvenirs. Some of the roads were steep and paved with bricks. I was not enjoying the experience. The streets were chaotic. Every time my dad turned onto another narrow street, it felt as if he was going to run into a person or a car. 
When we successfully left the streets and pulled into the parking lot of the museum, I relaxed. The building itself did not attract my attention but the whole front entrance of the Museum of Anatolian Civilization was filled with statues, basins, and other historical artifacts. I had thought earlier in the day why people would just leave the ruins of a temple in Hattusa without any type of covering or protection. In the museum, I realized that it was because of all of the other grand artifacts that they had in Turkey. The objects that were the most memorable were the jewelry. A necklace made of gold beads with acorn-like stones beneath had been made around three thousand years ago. If I were to put a pair of diamond earrings or gold bangle bracelets on display they would seem modern. Some of the jewelry seemed finer and more intricate than what modern machines can produce. They must have had brilliant craftsmanship back then, I thought. Most of the artifacts came out of tombs. The ancients had a belief in the afterlife and some civilizations, like ancient Egypt, valued the afterlife more than they valued life. 
A small shiny golden cup caught my attention. I guess it was mostly because the cup was smooth and the handle made a perfect curve outside of the cup. I thought that the cups that ancients drank from would look like clay toys that children made. The cup that I saw was made entirely from gold. It must have been heavy to lift, I thought. As I walked past it, I took one last look and imagined someone drinking from it.  We have a tendency to believe that modern art works are always better than historical artifacts, but after visiting the Ankara museum and other ancient sites, my appreciation for the past increased.
The next object that shocked me was a giant golden deer with two large horns in a glass display case. On top of the two horns were other smaller horns, reaching towards the glass. Well, I wonder how gold was carved back then. Did they have to make a stone model first and then pour gold into it? Well if that was true then this deer must have been hard to make. I could see nostrils on the deer’s face. Eye sockets contained two eyes that were rubbed flatter by time. 
After looking through all of the objects, I realized that other artifacts came from people’s homes or garbage. There were plates and tools that looked as if they had broken thousands of years ago. I imagined some archeologists picking through the ruins of my house when my civilization was gone. Yes, they would find the answers that they were looking for, remnants of my pans, plastic cups, and my pearl earrings. It would feel strange if I were to wander through a museum with my things in it. Despite that, it would also be amazing to imagine that my objects could outlive my civilization. 
**************************************************************************************
The hardest question that people usually ask is this: what was your most memorable experience in Turkey? Well, there is simply so much to say. Almost every place is memorable because it is so drastically different from Princeton and Beijing. Despite that, my sojourn to the top of the Red Valley in Cappadocia is unquestionably at the top of the list. The journey was a long and difficult trek around hills and down valleys. It took us a while getting to a good viewing point in the valley amid a slippery road of minute rocks and gritty sand. My most memorable moment was the point where we made a sharp turn around the side of a mountain. The valley was so different. There were no cities, no trees, and not even a drop of water to be seen in the sand. Perhaps the best way to say it is this: we were on a different planet. Giant towers of red stone stood in peaks and surrounded us. Beneath us, more red towers made of naturally occurring stone dotted the plain. The red valley beneath the gray sky was one of the most magnificent sites I had ever seen in my whole life. Golden sunlight shone through the pale clouds and dyed the Red Valley a shade of gold as well. 
A short while before our departure, I went on a boat ride with my parents to see the Eastern and Western side of Istanbul. The boat sailed on the river that divided the city. When I finally had to leave Turkey, I was not ready. l sighed. Well, I guess my time in the past was over.
