---
layout: default
title: "The formulas in Buddhist temples"
categories: number-and-ideas
---

	The mysterious and advanced world of math may seem technical and distant from religion but by looking deeply at Buddhist temples, that is not true. Buddhism is a famous religion with roots from Hinduism but some extremely different ideas. Most people in the world have heard of Buddhism and know it as a religion. Currently, Buddhism is the fourth largest religion with followers world wide.  Thus, Buddhist temples are also found throughout the world and some very famous temples relate closely to math.Temples are an important place for Buddhists and in some temples, there are decorations called mandalas. These temples, both ancient and modern, have complicated and beautiful architectural designs that remind some of math shapes or ideas, both simplistic and complicated depending on the purpose. Mathematics contains many different fields and Buddhist temples consist of a variety of them. Math is used in Buddhist temples and mandalas in the form of ornaments, building designs, and sacred geometry.
Buddhism was founded in the 5th century BCE by Siddhartha Gautama who later became the Buddha and it has a rich tradition of sacred design and architecture. He was a prince who decided to leave home to find enlightenment. Eventually, he discovered the “Four Noble Truths” that address the nature of suffering. The issue in Buddhism is desire and ending that desire along with suffering can lead to enlightenment and this process is a key part of Buddhism that involves the “Eightfold Path.” Besides the Buddha, there are other Bodhisattvas who aid people in reaching enlightenment. Similar to Hinduism, Buddhists also believe in reincarnation about how a person lives multiple lifetimes and will continue in the cycle of death, life, and rebirth until enlightenment and nirvana are reached. Karma is also an aspect of Buddhism. Actions of a person in this lifetime will have consequences in the next in terms of how negative actions will bring negative karma and positive actions will bring positive karma. The type of birth that a person has also relates to positive and negative karma. In terms of art, the lotus is an extremely important symbol in Buddhism for purity growing from impurity. Stupas are dome shaped structures above Buddhist temples and symbolize the wisdom of the Buddha and are also a key factor in Buddhist art. There are many complicated and detailed Buddhist temples around the world that are extremely intriguing to visitors. 
One of the most stunning examples of the math used in temple design is found in the Borobudur temple in Indonesia. The stupas of Borobudur resemble fractal geometry through having layers of stupas contained in stupas and the fractal dimension can be found through limits (Yanuarto). Fractal geometry is a math concept involving patterns of similar shapes contained in layers that are sometimes generated through algorithms. The principle of fractal geometry is how simple repeating patterns of similar shapes at different sizes can create a complicated graph. Many types of concepts related to it can get extremely complicated. Limits are a calculus concept that finds the value an expression approaches as the variable within infinitely approaches a number. The Borobudur is a large and important temple and the fact that math was used to construct it shows the frequent appearance of math in Buddhism. The stones of Borobudur also follow a mathematical pattern. The stones of the next level are 2/3 the original length and the height is 3/2 the length of the original height (Yanuarto). The building blocks of Borobudur follow a mathematical pattern, illustrating the importance of math in the Buddhist tradition of the Borobudur, as shown in the temple design. 
Math appears both in the designs and ornaments of Wat Arun, which means “Temple of Dawn,” in Thailand and it is a famous Buddhist temple. The layout of Wat Arun relates to Euclidean geometry and consists of concentric circles and squares with symmetry (Halim and Darmayanti). Concentric in terms of shapes means that they are sharing a center. Many mathematical problems involve concentric shapes because they are interesting to look at if there are many shapes contained within one another. The appearance of math in the layout of Wat Arun shows that it is key to the design of it and that math is important to Buddhist architecture. It also shows the creativity and the admiration of math of Buddhists in Thailand in designing temples. The ornaments in Wat Arun are of various shapes that include equilateral triangles and rhombuses and both are clearly defined mathematical concepts (Halim and Darmayanti). The fact that shapes can be found all over a Buddhist temple show how closely math ties to Buddhist architecture and ornaments.
In addition to ornaments of a Thailand Buddhist temple, math also appears in Buddhist temples throughout Japan through the sacred lotus ornaments containing ideas of densest circle packing. The densest packing is a problem that involves figuring out how n non-overlapping circles that are equal can be tightly packed in a larger circle such that they can have maximum diameter and maximum ratio of the combined areas of the circle with the larger circle. It is an extremely famous and interesting problem in the field of mathematics. An example illustrating that is the roof tile pattern of temples with circles containing the solutions to densest packing problems where there are 5, 10, 11, and many other circles being packed (Tarnai and Miyazaki). This shows how a problem of mathematics managed to have found its way to a Buddhist temple demonstrating how closely sacred architecture relates to math. Bells in Japanese Buddhism have lotuses as decorations. Some of them are solutions to densest packings for 6, 7, 8, or even 37 circles being packed (Tarnai and Miyazaki 3). The appearance of math on bells and lotus flowers that are key to Buddhism underscores the relationship between math and Buddhism.
In addition, math plays a key role in Japanese temple ornaments that are placed in temples as a type of worship in Japanese Buddhism. Sangaku is the name for tablets with mathematical formulas that are hung up in the Buddhist temples throughout Japan (Rothman and Fukagawa). Because there are mathematics problems hung up as worship in Buddhism, math relates to Buddhist decorations in temples. Sangaku problems include theorems and contain geometric problems frequently and are decorated so that they would fit in as temple ornaments. An example problem involves first drawing a line and then adding two circles that are tangent to this line and to each other at one point (Rothman and Fukagawa). A smaller circle is added and it touches both of the circles and is tangent to the line. The author was able to find the relationship between the three circles and this Sangaku problem dates back to 1824 (Rothman and Fukagawa). The specific theorems in the Sangaku and the earliness of some of the problems as illustrated through the example problem show the importance of math in Buddhist ornaments and bring them even closer to real mathematics and show the strong connection between the two.
Besides ornaments, math even relates to modern attempts of keeping Buddhist mandalas alive through computers, programs, and parametric models. Besides being decorations as stated before, the process of making mandalas also aids in meditation and is extremely important in Buddhism. There is a type of sand mandala that involves taking tubes of sand and spilling it in a pattern on the ground almost like paint. The art of mandala making takes a long time and needs incredible focus. Thus, the art of mandala making is starting to decrease through the passage of time. Currently, less and less people know how to create them by hand. Because of that, people are trying to preserve mandalas through computers. The technology can work because mandalas are regular and geometric and can be modeled mathematically even though they are complicated and detailed (Zhang et al). Because mandalas can be modeled mathematically, they relate closely to sacred geometry and math and can be continued because of this. An example of an aspect of mandalas is the lotus flower motif that has 4, 8, 10, or 16 petals and can be modeled through defining the contour (Zhang et al). This shows that a specific pattern of lotus can be defined mathematically and ties back to the idea of math in the sacred geometry of Buddhism. 
In addition, yantras are also artworks in Buddhism that aid in meditation through providing a point of focus with math and math related ideas as a part of the design and decoration. Yantras and mandalas are not exactly the same even though many use them in place for the other. Yantras are more geometric than mandalas and are a tool that Buddhists use to meditate while mandalas contain more complex patterns that are symmetric. Many consider yantras as a type of mandala and that is accurate in a sense. There are many different shapes that appear in these designs and triangles, circles, and squares are some of them and they appear extremely frequently (Irons). Because math symbols appear in Buddhist yantras, the tight relationship between math and Buddhist decorations that appear in temples is underscored. An example of a famous yantra is the one called the Sri Yantra with 9 triangles, 6 circles, and lotus petals arranged in a pattern (Irons). This illustrates that a famous Buddhist art work has sacred geometry that relates to math ideas and common math shapes. 
Finally, it is clear to see that math appears in decorations, geometric shapes, and building architecture in Buddhist mandalas and temples. Math comes up in sacred designs such as the lotus and the stupa while also coming up in shapes in meditation. The rich and complex histories of Buddhism and mathematics are also connected as seen through the earliness of some ornaments and building designs. The various locations where math and Buddhism are connected as shown in the various examples add on to the antiquity of the pattern of math appearing in these temples. The relationship between math and Buddhism adds to their mystery and interesting concepts while challenging people’s original opinions on the distinctiveness between advanced technology and spiritual beliefs.
WORKS CITED (starts on its own, separate page)

** Include all the sources you have consulted for the paper and properly format them in the MLA style.  For examples of the 10 most common MLA citation errors go HERE.
Halim, Erwin Ardianto, and Tessa Eka Darmayanti. “Identification of Ethnomathematics in Wat Arun “Temple of Dawn” in Bangkok, Thailand.” Local Wisdom Jurnal Ilmiah Kajian Kearifan Lokal, vol. 17, no. 1, 25 Mar. 2025, pp. 1–15, www.researchgate.net/publication/390181263_Identification_of_Ethnomathematics_in_Wat_Arun_Temple_of_Dawn_in_Bangkok_Thailand, https://doi.org/10.26905/lw.v17i1.12806.
Irons, Edward. “Yantra.” Encyclopedia of Buddhism, Second Edition, Facts On File, 2016. History Research Center, online.infobase.com/Auth/Index?aid=17283&itemid=WEHRC&articleId=241694.
Rothman, Tony, and Hidetoshi Fukagawa. “Japanese Temple Geometry.” Scientific American, vol. 278, no. 5, 1998, pp. 84–91. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/26057787. Accessed 10 Apr. 2025.
Tarnai, Tibor, and Koji Miyazaki. “Circle Packings and the Sacred Lotus.” Leonardo, vol. 36, no. 2, 2003, pp. 145–50. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/1577441. Accessed 8 Apr. 2025.
Yanuarto, Wanda Nugroho. “Ethnic vs Number: The Secret inside Borobudur Temple, Indonesia.” Journal of Education and Learning, vol. 11, no. 1, 2017, pp. 75–82. DOI: 10.11591/edulearn.v11i1.4297.
Zhang, Jiajing, et al. “Parametric Modeling and Generation of Mandala Thangka Patterns.” Journal of Computer Languages, vol. 58, June 2020, p. 100968, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cola.2020.100968. Accessed 4 Dec. 2022.

