---
layout: default
title: "Where The Sea Changed"
categories: postcards
---
The sea was placid. Rays of sunlight hit the surface giving the shades of blue a golden highlight. I relaxed my body in the water and rested all of my weight on the tip of my chin, which was located on top of the edge of the pool. The construction of the pool is what my dad called an “edgeless pool” because from afar, it looked as if the pool had no edge. There was in fact an edge that was round and at water level. Extra water spilled over the edge and into a tank below like ribbons that were cut into pieces. The pool was located right next to the beach. From my location, I had an excellent view of the shore while relaxing in the pool. It felt great. The water in the pool was so clear that I could see every small detail at the bottom. 
The waves hit the sand with such wonderful melody that it seemed the perfect song. The imperfection in my view was that there were tons of seagrass also floating in the ocean. They made parts of the ocean appear brown from afar. Seagulls circled above the ocean looking for the perfect moment to dive into the forest of seagrass for a fish that was too focused on eating. It was very quiet. The other people in the pool and on the beach were talking, but quietly. 
Nothing changed for a moment. The sea continued to move in its rhythm and the seagulls continued to circle in their dance for prey in the sky. Then, I noticed something. It was a dark grey cloud floating in the sky. There were clouds that I had noticed already. White fluffy clouds that hung in some parts of the sky like pieces of an incomplete puzzle. The grey cloud was different, very different. It approached the shore gradually.
“Look, a thunderstorm is coming,” my dad said to me and my mom who was lying on a chair facing the pool. 
“Should we leave?” I asked.
“We don’t need to leave yet. It still has a long way to go,” my dad replied. The cloud was far away, but the view was overwhelming.  I have to use the word “overwhelming” because there is no better word. The cloud was a very dark shade of grey, and underneath that cloud, the sea was no longer placid but violent. Perhaps the original placidness was the result of the golden sun. The sea roared with anger through the sound of the army of waves it sent to the shore striking the sand. The lightning from the cloud joined the effect and continuously hit the surface of the ocean, lighting up an entire area of the ocean’s surface. The light contrasted with the mist and created the most fabulous photo. Seagulls joined in the performance. Brave, daring birds flew through the storm and around piercing lightning. They were adventurers who dared to approach the dangerous ocean. I saw the mere seconds of effects and they overwhelmed me.
“We should go now,” my mom said while looking at the rain drops that now started attacking the beach. We packed our things and started to leave. The rocks in the ocean were small mountains that were facing the rows of invading waves. 
When we went into our room, the shower began. When it ended, everything went back to normal. The waves, the clouds, and the seagulls.

