---
layout: default
title: "2025 Madrid"
categories: postcards
---

During winter break, I was able to enjoy my time in Madrid. Traveling around the bustling city and to historic areas around it, my time in Spain was a pleasure. Out of the many things I saw, the visit to the palace in Madrid was definitely one of the most memorable.

That morning, we left early to walk around its parameters and to view Madrid from above. We strolled around the various plazas on the way there and saw little stores next to the road. They sold things from Spanish chocolate to ceramic statuettes of flamenco dancers. Eventually, we made our way to the top of a hill. From there, we could see the whole city of Madrid. Houses far away were like pieces of Legos that I could pick up, and clouds dotted the sky. The hill made me feel very tall compared to buildings that had towered over me minutes before.

Though the hill was pretty, I could not wait for the Royal Palace. After pushing through a crowd of hundreds of people, we waited in line for almost twenty minutes. Finally, the front yard of the palace entered our view. To be precise, this front yard was the size of a plaza. With a building on one side and arches on the other, the plaza still seemed grand by itself.

The front entrance to the main building stunned me. The building was rectangular in structure and massive. Hundreds—maybe thousands—of windows appeared on the walls. Underneath, a roof covered a very tall door. Entering the palace, I was stunned again by the high ceiling and the details that decorated the walls. The staircase surpassed the entrance in its grandeur. Made from marble, the tiles of each step were wide. Stone lions guarded the space on either side of the staircase. Finally climbing up and entering the rooms, my expectations were satisfied.

Each room that we visited contained something unique. Despite that, none of the rooms were unique in how detailed and glamorous they were. From paintings on the ceilings to tapestries on the walls, figures within looked as if they could come alive. As a viewer, I felt as if I could enter each fictional world.

The furniture was upholstered with fabric that looked like tapestries. Each couch or chair had soft, plush seats. Some of the tables were wooden but held up golden statues. The ornaments in the room all looked as if they took months to make.

A clock caught my attention. On top of the actual display of time, two miniature angels held a golden crown suspended above a statue’s tiny head. Each small detail of the angels and the statue being crowned seemed real and alive.

As a frequent traveler, I was somewhat prepared to see the ceremonial crown. Still, I enjoyed the surprise in its elegance. The entire bottom part of the crown was covered in pure gold. Red fabric appeared beneath the golden arcs supporting a sphere with a golden cross on top. The crown was larger than my head and must have been incredibly heavy to wear.

Leaving the room with the crown, we made our way to the throne room. I could clearly understand how Spanish royalty once impressed ambassadors. Paintings covered the ceiling, giant mirrors lined the walls, and a massive chandelier hung above. Statues appeared throughout the space.

Leaving the palace, we passed through the plaza once more. I took another look at the giant building behind me. Even though I left, memories of the place remain in my mind. These images are etched in my memory the same way the patterns were etched into the furniture.
